# Sensitivity analysis and uncertainty propagation of the time to onset of natural circulation in air ingress accidents
A repository for the journal paper published in Nuclear Engineering and Design with the title: Sensitivity analysis and uncertainty propagation of the time to onset of natural circulation in air ingress accidents

## Paper

Eaheart, M., Cooper, J., Ross, M., See, N., & Radaideh, M. (2025). Sensitivity analysis and uncertainty propagation of the time to onset of natural circulation in air ingress accidents. *Nuclear Engineering and Design*, **445**, pp. 114510. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.nucengdes.2025.114510

## 🛠️ Environment Installation

To set up the environment for this project, follow these steps:

```bash
# 1. Create a new conda environment with name (`onc`)
conda env create -n onc python=3.12

# 2. Activate the environment
conda activate onc

# 3. Install all needed libraries
pip install tensorflow==2.19.0
pip install scikit-learn==1.7.0
pip install SALib==1.5.1
pip install matplotlib pandas numpy seaborn

# 4. Install Jupyter and Papermill for notebook execution if needed
pip install jupyter papermill

```

## How to generate the results

- You can regenerate most of the results in the paper by running the Python script `onc.py` or the notebook `onc.ipynb`, which will generate a directory named `mbe_results` that include the figures and tables. Note the following:
  - All data files are saved under the data directory `/data/`
  - The file `best_nn_model.keras` shows a pretrained neural network model that was generated via the mode `train` in the script. If you want to generate another model, make sure to switch the mode to the training mode, otherwise, the script will load this pre-trained model, which will accelerate the processing.
  - Sample results that are expected to be generated by the script are provided under the folder `paper_results`.

- The directory `fluent_sample` contains the ONC Fluent **base** case used to generate the perturbed cases discussed in the paper. Within this directory, we also include a PyFluent runner script that demonstrates the commands employed to load the base case, apply parameter perturbations, initiate the simulation, adjust the time step, manage output files, and create flow-field animations. Please note that ANSYS Fluent 2024R2 is required for full compatibility with this setup. Using other versions of Fluent may lead to issues when loading the mesh.


## Notes 
  - Please note that because machine learning training involves inherent randomness (e.g., random initialization and seeding), your numerical results may differ slightly from those reported in the paper. These variations are expected to be minimal and do not affect the validity of the conclusions, even if the script is executed multiple times with different random seeds.


